README.md, before:

# phpMyAdmin on Docker #
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/docker%20hub-ghifari160%2Fphpmyadmin-6C78AF.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/ghifari160/apache-php56)
[![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/ghifari160/phpmyadmin.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/ghifari160/phpmyadmin "Get your own image badge on microbadger.com")

Manage your database server from a [Docker][docker] container.

## Why Use This Image ##
This image is built on [ghifari160/apache-php56][g16-apache-php56], which forces
Apache to run in the foreground and output its log into the container's stdio to
aid in debugging. This container is also equipped with a powerful init script
that will automatically configure [phpMyAdmin][pma] for installation if no
instance is found (the script will exit if the phpMyAdmin instance is already
installed).

## Installation ##
By default, this image should be run as a daemon.
```
docker run -d ghifari160/phpmyadmin
```
However, this image can be run in the foreground for debug purposes.
```
docker run -it ghifari160/phpmyadmin
```

**This image must be [linked](#link-to-another-container) to a database server
or a container running a database server.**

### Further Configurations ###
#### Name your container ####
Add this parameter: `--name <name>`
Example:
```
docker run --name phpmyadmin -d ghifari160/phpmyadmin
```

#### Store the Wordpress instance in a predetermined location of your own choosing ####
Add this parameter: `-v /path/on/host:/var/www/html`
Example:
```
docker run -d -v /path/on/host:/var/www/html ghifari160/phpmyadmin
```

#### Change the port on your container ####
Use the parameter `-p <port on host>:80` to map the container's port to another
port on the host machine.
Example:
```
docker run -d -p 8080:80 ghifari160/phpmyadmin
```

#### Link to another container ####
Use the parameter `--link=<target name>` to link the container to another
container.
Example:
```
docker run --link=mysql -d ghifari160/phpmyadmin
```

## Tags ##
| Tags                      | Ubuntu Version | Size              |
|---------------------------|----------------|:-----------------:|
| `16.04` `xenial`          | 16.04          | [![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/ghifari160/phpmyadmin:16.04.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/ghifari160/phpmyadmin:16.04 "Get your own image badge on microbadger.com")|
| `17.10` `artful`          | 17.10          | **NOT SUPPORTED** |
| `latest` `18.04` `bionic` | 18.04          |[![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/ghifari160/phpmyadmin.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/ghifari160/phpmyadmin "Get your own image badge on microbadger.com")|

[docker]: https://www.docker.com
[g16-apache-php56]: https://github.com/ghifari160/docker-apache-php56
[pma]: https://www.phpmyadmin.net

Commit message:

Update PMA versions and restructure tags
Tags are now based on the version of PMA rather
than the base platform and OS. Current tags are
deprecated and will be removed at the next
update.

- Remove 16.04/*
- Remove 18.04/*
- Add v4.9.3/* with phpMyAdmin v4.9.3 and PHP 7.3 on Ubuntu 18.04
- Add v5.0.0/* with phpMyAdmin v5.0.0 and PHP 7.3 on Ubuntu 18.04
- Update symlinked Dockerfile to v5.0.0/Dockerfile
- Update symlinked init.sh to v5.0.0/init.sh
- Update README.md to reflect restructuring of tags

README.md, after:

# phpMyAdmin on Docker #
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/docker%20hub-ghifari160%2Fphpmyadmin-6C78AF.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/ghifari160/phpmyadmin)
[![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/ghifari160/phpmyadmin.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/ghifari160/phpmyadmin "Get your own image badge on microbadger.com")

Manage your database server from a [Docker][docker] container.

## Why Use This Image ##
This image is built on [ghifari160/apache-php73][g16-apache-php73], which forces
Apache to run in the foreground and output its log into the container's stdio to
aid in debugging. This container is also equipped with a powerful init script
that will automatically configure [phpMyAdmin][pma] for installation if no
instance is found (the script will exit if the phpMyAdmin instance is already
installed).

## Installation ##
By default, this image should be run as a daemon.
```
docker run -d ghifari160/phpmyadmin
```
However, this image can be run in the foreground for debug purposes.
```
docker run -it ghifari160/phpmyadmin
```

**This image must be [linked](#link-to-another-container) to a database server
or a container running a database server.**

### Further Configurations ###
#### Name your container ####
Add this parameter: `--name <name>`
Example:
```
docker run --name phpmyadmin -d ghifari160/phpmyadmin
```

#### Store the Wordpress instance in a predetermined location of your own choosing ####
Add this parameter: `-v /path/on/host:/var/www/html`
Example:
```
docker run -d -v /path/on/host:/var/www/html ghifari160/phpmyadmin
```

#### Change the port on your container ####
Use the parameter `-p <port on host>:80` to map the container's port to another
port on the host machine.
Example:
```
docker run -d -p 8080:80 ghifari160/phpmyadmin
```

#### Link to another container ####
Use the parameter `--link=<target name>` to link the container to another
container.
Example:
```
docker run --link=mysql -d ghifari160/phpmyadmin
```

## Tags ##
All deprecated tags will be removed at the next update.
| Tags                      | Ubuntu Version | Size              |
|---------------------------|----------------|:-----------------:|
| `v4` `v4.9.3`             | 18.04          |[![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/ghifari160/phpmyadmin:v4.9.3.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/ghifari160/phpmyadmin:v4.9.3 "Get your own image badge on microbadger.com")|
| `latest` `v5` `v5.0.0`    | 18.04          |[![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/ghifari160/phpmyadmin:v5.0.0.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/ghifari160/phpmyadmin:v5.0.0 "Get your own image badge on microbadger.com")|
| `16.04` `xenial`          | 16.04          | **DEPRECATED**    |
| `17.10` `artful`          | 17.10          | **NOT SUPPORTED** |
| `18.04` `bionic`          | 18.04          | **DEPRECATED**    |

[docker]: https://www.docker.com
[g16-apache-php73]: https://github.com/ghifari160/docker-apache-php73
[pma]: https://www.phpmyadmin.net
